DOCUMENTATION.md, before:

# Documentation for malle

Note: you can use this library in a typescript or javascript project. When in typescript, import the interfaces to have strong typing everywhere.

~~~javascript
import { InputType, EventType, Action, SelectOptions, Options, Malle } from 'malle';
~~~

## Overview

Once malle is imported into your project, you'll want to create a `Malle` instance with some options. You can then call the `listen()` method to start listening on targeted elements.

By default it will listen for click events on `[data-malleable='true']` elements, and create a text input with no action buttons (submit, cancel).

### Options

When instanciating the `Malle` class, you need to give it an `Options` argument. The only required value is `fun` which is your custom function.

Available options:

#### after
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event, value: string): boolean`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called after everything is processed.

#### before
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event): boolean`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called before anything else is done, once the trigger event has been fired. If it returns something else than `true`, the edition will be canceled.

#### cancel
`string`
default: `''`

The text that will be displayed on the Cancel button. If omitted or empty string, no cancel button will be shown

#### cancelClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the Cancel button.

#### formClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the form element.

#### inputClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the input element (children of the form).

#### debug
`boolean`
default: `false`

Be verbose about what is happening in the console.

#### event
`EventType`:
* `EventType.Click` (`'click'`)
* `EventType.Mouseenter` (`'mouseenter'`)
* `EventType.Mouseover` (`'mouseover'`)

default: 'click'

What kind of event will trigger the edit mode. If you are in TypeScript, import the `EventType` enum and use it. In a Javascript project, simply use the corresponding string value.

#### inputType
`InputType`:
* `InputType.Email` (`'email'`)
* `InputType.Number` (`'number'`)
* `InputType.Select` (`'select'`)
* `InputType.Text` (`'text'`)
* `InputType.Textarea` (`'textarea'`)
* `InputType.Url` (`'url'`)

default: 'text'

What kind of input will be replacing the target element. If you are in TypeScript, import the `InputType` enum and use it. In a Javascript project, simply use the corresponding string value.

#### focus
`boolean`
default: `true`

Bring the input into focus.

#### fun (required)
`Function(value: string, original: HTMLElement, event: Event, input: HTMLInputElement): Promise<string>`
default: `undefined`

This is your function doing the hard work. It must return the `value` as a `Promise<string>`, and this string will be the new value of the target element. Use the original element, the event or the input to achieve what you want. Typically, this function will make a POST or PUT request to update the value in the backend.

#### listenNow
boolean
default: `false`

Set to true to start listening on events upon `Malle` class instanciation. Otherwise you need to call the `listen()` method yourself.

#### listenOn
string
default: `[data-malleable='true']`

What elements are we listening on? Use any value that you would put in `document.querySelector()` (e.g: `.malleable`, `#some-element`, `span`).

#### onBlur
`Action`
* `Action.Submit` (`'submit'`)
* `Action.Cancel` (`'cancel'`)
* `Action.Ignore` (`'ignore'`)

default value: 'submit'

What to do when the user clicks outside the input? By default the form will be submitted (if valid), but you can decide to do nothing or cancel the edition.

#### onEdit
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event, input: HTMLInputElement): any`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called once the input is there and user is ready to type. The return value is not checked.

#### onEnter
`Action`
* `Action.Submit` (`'submit'`)
* `Action.Cancel` (`'cancel'`)
* `Action.Ignore` (`'ignore'`)

default value: 'submit'

What to do when the user presses Enter key? By default the form will be submitted (if valid), but you can decide to do nothing or cancel the edition.

#### requireDiff
boolean

default: `true`

By default, the `fun` function won't be called in the input value is the same as the original value. Set to `false` to always call `fun` regardless of input.

#### selectOptions
`Array<SelectOptions>`

default: `[]`

If your `inputType` is a `select`, you might want it to have options. A `SelectOptions` object looks like this:

~~~typecript
interface SelectOptions {
  value: string;
  text: string;
  selected?: boolean;
}
~~~

#### submit
string
default: `''`

The text that will be displayed on the Submit button. If omitted or empty string, no submit button will be shown

#### submitClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the Submit button.

#### tooltip
string
default: `''`

Set the title of the elements we listen on. You could use something like `Click to edit!`. The text will be visible if the mouse is hovering the element.

Commit message:

add `returnedValueIsTrustedHtml` so the function used on original element is `innerHTML` instead of the safer `innerText`

DOCUMENTATION.md, after:

# Documentation for malle

Note: you can use this library in a typescript or javascript project. When in typescript, import the interfaces to have strong typing everywhere.

~~~javascript
import { InputType, EventType, Action, SelectOptions, Options, Malle } from 'malle';
~~~

## Overview

Once malle is imported into your project, you'll want to create a `Malle` instance with some options. You can then call the `listen()` method to start listening on targeted elements.

By default it will listen for click events on `[data-malleable='true']` elements, and create a text input with no action buttons (submit, cancel).

### Options

When instanciating the `Malle` class, you need to give it an `Options` argument. The only required value is `fun` which is your custom function.

Available options:

#### after
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event, value: string): boolean`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called after everything is processed.

#### before
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event): boolean`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called before anything else is done, once the trigger event has been fired. If it returns something else than `true`, the edition will be canceled.

#### cancel
`string`
default: `''`

The text that will be displayed on the Cancel button. If omitted or empty string, no cancel button will be shown

#### cancelClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the Cancel button.

#### formClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the form element.

#### inputClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the input element (children of the form).

#### debug
`boolean`
default: `false`

Be verbose about what is happening in the console.

#### event
`EventType`:
* `EventType.Click` (`'click'`)
* `EventType.Mouseenter` (`'mouseenter'`)
* `EventType.Mouseover` (`'mouseover'`)

default: 'click'

What kind of event will trigger the edit mode. If you are in TypeScript, import the `EventType` enum and use it. In a Javascript project, simply use the corresponding string value.

#### inputType
`InputType`:
* `InputType.Email` (`'email'`)
* `InputType.Number` (`'number'`)
* `InputType.Select` (`'select'`)
* `InputType.Text` (`'text'`)
* `InputType.Textarea` (`'textarea'`)
* `InputType.Url` (`'url'`)

default: 'text'

What kind of input will be replacing the target element. If you are in TypeScript, import the `InputType` enum and use it. In a Javascript project, simply use the corresponding string value.

#### focus
`boolean`
default: `true`

Bring the input into focus.

#### fun (required)
`Function(value: string, original: HTMLElement, event: Event, input: HTMLInputElement): Promise<string>`
default: `undefined`

This is your function doing the hard work. It must return the `value` as a `Promise<string>`, and this string will be the new value of the target element. Use the original element, the event or the input to achieve what you want. Typically, this function will make a POST or PUT request to update the value in the backend.

#### listenNow
boolean
default: `false`

Set to true to start listening on events upon `Malle` class instanciation. Otherwise you need to call the `listen()` method yourself.

#### listenOn
string
default: `[data-malleable='true']`

What elements are we listening on? Use any value that you would put in `document.querySelector()` (e.g: `.malleable`, `#some-element`, `span`).

#### onBlur
`Action`
* `Action.Submit` (`'submit'`)
* `Action.Cancel` (`'cancel'`)
* `Action.Ignore` (`'ignore'`)

default value: 'submit'

What to do when the user clicks outside the input? By default the form will be submitted (if valid), but you can decide to do nothing or cancel the edition.

#### onEdit
`Function(original: HTMLElement, event: Event, input: HTMLInputElement): any`
default: `undefined`

This function will be called once the input is there and user is ready to type. The return value is not checked.

#### onEnter
`Action`
* `Action.Submit` (`'submit'`)
* `Action.Cancel` (`'cancel'`)
* `Action.Ignore` (`'ignore'`)

default value: 'submit'

What to do when the user presses Enter key? By default the form will be submitted (if valid), but you can decide to do nothing or cancel the edition.

#### requireDiff
boolean

default: `true`

By default, the `fun` function won't be called in the input value is the same as the original value. Set to `false` to always call `fun` regardless of input.

#### returnedValueIsTrustedHtml
boolean

default: `false`

If `true`, `innerHTML` is used instead of `innerText` with the returned value from the server. Helps with html-encoded strings ending up wrongly displayed after an edit/save. Only set to `true` if you sanitize output and have a strict CSP.

#### selectOptions
`Array<SelectOptions>`

default: `[]`

If your `inputType` is a `select`, you might want it to have options. A `SelectOptions` object looks like this:

~~~typecript
interface SelectOptions {
  value: string;
  text: string;
  selected?: boolean;
}
~~~

#### submit
string
default: `''`

The text that will be displayed on the Submit button. If omitted or empty string, no submit button will be shown

#### submitClasses
`Array<string>`
default: `[]`

An array of classes that will be applied to the Submit button.

#### tooltip
string
default: `''`

Set the title of the elements we listen on. You could use something like `Click to edit!`. The text will be visible if the mouse is hovering the element.
